Welcome to A.B. Testing Podcast, your modern testing podcast.
Your hosts, Alan and Brent, will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership,
agile, and anything else that comes to mind.
Now, on with the show.
And we're back.
Hey, Brent.
Yes, we are.
Hey, man.
It seems like it's been forever.
It has been.
You know, life happens and we slow down.
You get what you pay for with the A.B.
Testing Podcast.
How much does it cost, Brent?
Zero.
Our business model is wrong.
No, we don't do this for the money.
We don't do it for the fame.
In fact, I don't know if I've mentioned this on air.
I don't recall how much I've mentioned it to you, Brent.
But did you know the A.B.
Testing Podcast is an LLC?
I did not.
I forgot I haven't told you this for the last three or four months.
A.B.
Testing is its own entity with its own tax number.
We have our own bank account.
And all of the proceeds I get from things that were born in modern testing, which is
basically every conference talk I give, the Ministry of Test, modern testing course, etc.
All that goes into the bank account, which I use then to pay for hosting and other random
shit.
I think it's not a lot of money in there, but as it builds up and as God, it's been a long
year.
As this COVID year ends and the next COVID year begins, somewhere at the end, there'll be
conferences that people go to.
I thought it would be cool if we could do scholarships for those, things like that,
do some sponsorships, give back to the community that has supported us for so long.
That's my plan with that.
But yeah, we're an LLC.
I have a checking account and I make sure that any billing I do for any proceeds go into
that and then I spend money out of that for the podcast, what I just said.
So yeah, how did we get there?
How you been, man?
I've been okay.
I'm finding the potentially up and coming constitutional crisis interesting.
Oh, we're going to talk about that.
You know why?
Because this is the last podcast we are going to do in 2020.
If you're a listener and you'd like to be on an ABT 343, which I haven't done in a while
because I've been very busy, I will have some time in the rest of the month.
Ping me and maybe we can get something set up.
But yeah, this is our end of year 2020 recap looking forward.
We're going to go over our predictions from last year.
We're going to talk about some things interesting from this year besides COVID.
I should say including COVID and we'll talk about some things we're expecting to see next
year.
So yeah, that's our plan for today.
All right, then I don't know if we should go.
Well, before we go into what we predicted, we all know what we hated about 2020.
Yeah.
What's going on?
And by the way, it's interesting.
This is episode 131.
And the last one we did was just before the election.
It was.
It was election production episode.
You were wrong and right.
You predicted, we'll go into predictions and then we'll go back to my original, a cup one
prediction and then we'll go back to my original agenda here.
You predicted Trump would win and the country would burn.
Trump lost and the country is burning.
So as far as I am aware, maybe you.
Stay close to the microphone, Brent.
Maybe you are more aware than I have, but as far as I'm aware, all states have not yet
certified most states.
Actually all states, I believe have certified.
I don't know.
So the news I had as of yesterday, it said had not yet occurred.
The electorates don't vote for another week and a half.
December 14th.
But the elections, as far as I know, were all to be certified by the end of November.
There is a path.
There is a path where my prediction holds true.
Would you like to hear it?
I can go read it on any conspiracy website.
I'm sure.
No, the path is essentially if all states failed to certify, there is a path where that
escalates to the house.
And the house then votes on the president, but they vote like the Senate.
In other words, the house, each state gets one vote.
And if that happens, the red states outnumbered the blue states.
They do.
Trump wins.
That would be hilarious.
And there would be there.
And you'd still be right.
The country would burn.
Oh, it would even burn hotter than it would have if he had one on the election day.
Right.
Because there's going to be all those people who, like, as you just stated, claim claiming
he lost and suddenly had the way he did lose.
Yes, we could break apart what little remains of what we call democracy in our country and
have him win.
But he lost regardless of what happens on a technicality, which is a long shot.
He lost.
Well, I lost by a lot.
Yeah.
Certainly, he has not shown himself to be particularly presidential since the election.
He hasn't shown himself to be presidential for the last four years.
He's been exceptionally poor in the last four weeks.
Yes, agreed.
OK.
Yeah.
Anyway, I've said my say on that.
All right.
We're not recording, but I'm sipping on a lovely Costco cold brew coffee.
I've almost not gone to a store since the pandemic began.
I've probably been inside of a grocery store three or four times since March.
I have become an Instacart patron.
They bring me nice things and I tip the drivers nicely.
It works out well.
But I got a little Costco run delivered yesterday.
I joined Costco for the first time ever in 2020.
How about that for an accomplishment?
Yeah, it's interesting because I have been using Costco less and less.
But for the first time in over a year, I actually got a Costco delivery yesterday.
Oh, that's what my game was yesterday.
Wow.
Aren't we close and tight now?
We are.
We both get Costco things.
Before I go recap our predictions from our 2019 show, if you'd like to pause here, go
back and listen yourself.
I think it was episode 119 or something.
You can find it.
I thought I would take some time to see if there's anything at all that you and I
can think of that we enjoyed about the year that will forever be known as 2020, the year
from hell.
Books, movies, podcasts, articles, people, etc.
What did you enjoy about 2020?
I do have two things.
Number one, I have a bunch of new hires that came to my team and they were all based in
the East Coast of the United States.
Because of the timeliness of COVID, I guess, they integrated rather well because basically
even the people who weren't remote were now remote.
So that was nice.
It's rare for me to have within a few months of a new hire, people reaching out and going,
oh my God, this guy's fantastic, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It was a great level setting, I guess.
Now everyone to be on the same level.
That was nice.
The other thing I would say is a podcast that I have found is really helping me be a solid
distraction as well as empathetic.
I don't know if you recall, super popular show about 15 years ago called Scrubs.
I know that show, yeah.
Has it been that long?
God, I'm old.
Yeah, it's been a while.
I am old, by the way.
I had a birthday yesterday.
Oh, and yes, you did.
And I actually noted to...
Pass me about that.
I was going to say, congrats to you.
I am officially reaching geriatric levels of age.
Remind myself, I think you're what, two years older, three?
I don't know.
How old are you?
I turned 51 in March.
Yeah, I'm four years older than you.
I just hit the double nickels.
Oh, so if you were still here at Microsoft, you...
I could retire and keep all my stock.
You're right.
You now hit the immediate vest.
Yes, yes.
I could not have made it that long.
I would not have made it.
I'd be dead.
But anyway, go on.
This podcast, Scrubs, go on.
Yeah, the name of the podcast is Fake Doctors Real Friends.
And it's hosted by the two main characters from Scrubs.
Donald Faison and Zach Braff.
And they're basically going back and rewatching the Scrubs shows and sort of doing random commentary
that they have.
But for the most part, they go off tangent.
I smile every time they do that because I'm like, ah, it's not just me and Alan.
But it's amusing.
It's got a good deal of background information about the show, which I loved.
It's got a good deal of empathy and compassion, a good deal of sort of venting and frustration.
And to me, it's been soothing and helpful in some regards because you got these two guys
who's out there making it very clear.
They're feeling different versions of exactly the same bullshit pain I am.
So that's been a little gem for me.
Fake Doctors Real Friends.
Very cool.
I'm going to share a couple podcasts that have joined my high rotation in 2020.
The first one is, of course, I'm a big Pat Lincione fan, Lincione, author of Five Dysfunctions
of a Team, but I've read everything he's ever written.
He has a podcast talking about one thing I want to go into, into 2021 episode is his new
concept hasn't even written a book about it, but it's very similar to Strengthfinders.
It's the six types of genius.
And it's really just talking about what are, I don't want to go deeply into it.
I mentioned it in a five for Friday, a few weeks ago.
It is fascinating.
I'd love to dive into that sometime.
That was heard that for the first time on his podcast.
The other one, there's just incredible storytelling.
And in fact, I'm going to tell a little bit.
Now I don't want to go into it, but take the whole story.
So it's called Cautionary Tales, and it is just fascinating storytelling about one that
was just fantastic.
Bowie Jazz and the Unplayable Piano.
And it's good at winding these stories together, but the story here is I don't want to give
it away, but it's really about the main story that they start and end with with some weaving
is about a concert that Keith Jarrett played jazz piano player played in Germany.
Really famous recording came out of that and just kind of how it came to be, which is
a massive fluke.
I spend a lot of my time thinking about how complex systems fail and or really how complex
systems work.
And it just brings a lot of sort of meta insight into that sort of thing.
So that's another of my favorites that I'd recommend from 2020.
What was the name again?
Cautionary Tales.
Okay.
It is most excellent.
Highly recommend it.
I binged it a few weekends ago and went through about a half a dozen episodes.
I have more to do.
And that's all I mentioned for my podcast.
Movie wise.
Oh, did you watch the Queen's Gambit on Netflix?
No.
I thought it was excellent.
It made me want to play chess again.
And then I remembered, oh yeah, I suck at chess.
Well it depends on who you play, right?
Right, it sure does.
Right.
Play a five year old and you'll go, yeah, chess.
It depends on the five year old.
Right.
Well, that's true.
Play your puppy.
There you go.
I was thinking through, I think the only, I think I have only watched one movie.
No, that's false.
I watched two movies this year.
One it was the new Pixar movie with the two boys who are trying to, one of them learns
sorcery and tries to summon his dad.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I saw that.
What was that called?
I feel like it has the word close in the title.
It was funny.
Yeah.
I saw that one.
And then I also.
They're yelling the name out right now.
They are.
And then the other one I saw was a rewatch.
So one of the things that I have been doing to keep myself sane is NHK world news.
It's a news channel broadcasting from Tokyo, but it's all in English and they do a lot
of, you know, every hour on the hour, they do some news and then they have a bunch of
little sort of cultural shows.
And I've been kind of using that to to sort of fake.
Hey, I'm actually traveling this year.
I'm actually, you know, doing things and seeing stuff and in others.
They said that sort of fill that that empty void.
The in as part of that, I suddenly early on, I suddenly had an inkling to go back and
rewatch the made for TV movie Shogun.
Oh my God.
I remember that from a gazillion years ago in 1984.
It was well worth it.
That was such a well done movie.
So yeah, I enjoyed that.
Right now on on the streaming medias.
We recently signed up for Disney Plus and I got the bundle package.
So I now have Netflix, Amazon, Prime Video.
I have Disney Plus.
I have HBO Max and Hulu.
And I've had way too many of these things for the amount of time I can spend watching.
Yeah, I ended up dropping HBO Max.
I have the I have the Hulu Disney, Hulu Disney ESPN package.
I haven't started watching Mandalorian yet.
My son's coming to visit and I figured he and I could start watching it together.
But on HBO Max, Doom Patrol has captured a great deal of my attention for a for a DC
universe thing.
I'm finding that well done.
They also have Teen Titans there that I haven't started yet.
But it's definitely made for adults.
I did pick up CBS All Access because I want to catch up on all of the Star Trek Discovery
and the Picard series.
And also mainly I picked it up because they're doing yet another remake of The Stand, which
is one of my favorite books.
So an original mini series they did on it was just absolutely awful.
So I'm looking forward to seeing what they do.
Yeah, so yeah, that's well, I'll take some time over winter and I'll do a lot of watching
of the videos, I guess, and playing of the video games.
What I want to do next is reflect on our predictions for 2020 before we go into what
we think may happen in 2021.
And I'll just go one by one.
You have a lot here.
OK, so the first one is actually interesting because we already talked about it.
Your first prediction from one year ago was that Trump would be reelected.
And we already had that discussion.
So I'll go on.
Not yet false.
Not yet false, but false and I hopefully false.
The other one that you predicted was the rise of AIOps.
How's that coming along?
Yeah, it's I'll go ahead and say that that's a failed prediction.
It's funny because it's close to one of my predictions for 2021.
So put a pin in that.
We'll come back to it in a bit.
So Covid put a non-trivial distraction, I think, on a lot of these things.
So AIOps is actually more prevalent than last year.
But is it?
My prediction was intended to say it's going to be like fad worthy term.
And that's clearly false.
All right.
Yeah.
The next one was interesting.
We can probably talk about it for a moment because it's maybe not quite.
But I'll just read and see what you say.
One talk per major test conference on or about modern testing,
perhaps by people not even on our radar.
I think the first part is false, but the second part is certainly true.
Yeah.
And the first part is arguably true, depending
on your definition of major test conference.
So a lot of test conferences have had people talk about modern testing.
I don't know that Star has, but I think many of the other conferences have.
It's been interesting.
And also the rise of people that we don't know about talking about modern testing.
Yeah, that has happened.
I find that absolutely fascinating.
And here, I'm not excluding the folks that we do know about around people
we don't know about talking about modern testing in order to knock it down.
I'm talking about supporters of it.
Yeah, so Star has.
I just did a search Star East.
For example, there was a talk, Timeless Testing Skills for Modern Testing,
Critical Test Strategies for the Modern Testing World.
At least, I don't know what the content of these.
I stand corrected.
I don't know what the content of those presentations were,
but at least the name is there.
All right, and going on, I did make a joke about the convergence of modern testing
in AI ops, but that never happened.
So it's OK.
That was a joke.
But then the next thing is something I wish would have happened.
And I think should happen, but has not happened yet.
You said observability will kill testability.
Yeah, that has not.
I don't think that is universally happened yet.
No, that's that's one where.
We need to help with that.
Put that on the 2021 to do list.
That's that's one where I wonder if if Joe has an insight on a Joel.
Who the hell is Joe?
Joel Taylor Swift's boyfriend, Joe.
Yeah, different.
Joe, it might be.
I don't know.
OK, speaking of speaking of Tay Tay.
Yeah.
How are your guitar lessons going?
Yeah, that was another prediction that you would start guitar lessons.
Yeah, so that went out the window when I screwed my finger.
Oh, that's right.
Right.
And by the way, for the streaming users who are not there,
my finger still ain't fixed.
I may be going back for another surgery.
Yay.
Yeah, your camera's on anyway.
I can't see your picture.
My camera's not on.
No, I is the stupid.
Oh, there it is.
All right.
I thought maybe you hadn't put your makeup on or something.
No, yeah.
Yeah, so that hasn't happened.
That's OK.
I have been playing my guitar more because I get bored,
but you can't see it's off camera.
It's on my other camera.
But we'll go on.
And then your last one was you don't recall any of these, do you?
You said your beloved 49ers, that's
an American football team, would win the Super Bowl.
They did not.
They did win to it.
The game was close, but they did not win.
And they will absolutely not be at risk of winning this year.
I was going to say.
All right.
So that wrapped up your predictions.
I had a few as well last year.
The first one I said, I will speak at exactly one conference.
I did not go to any conferences, but I
ended up doing technically the only conference.
No, that's not even true at all.
I did Test Bash Home.
I did a webinar for Test Craft.
And I just this last weekend had a recording presented
at the Test Flix conference.
Little eight minute talk.
So I didn't go to any conferences, but I presented.
And with a caveat, I thought my one conference presentation
would be a dev or a DevOps conference.
That did not happen.
I spoke all at, technically, at two test conferences.
So we'll look forward in a minute.
I said that the Sounders would make the playoffs
the 12th straight year.
And they did, but would lose in the conference championship.
Due to COVID, the conference championship
has not happened yet.
It is on Monday.
So we'll see how close I am there.
And I said they would make the CCL final.
Again, if you're not an American soccer fan,
you won't know what any of this means.
But they went out in the very first round of the CCL.
So that didn't happen either.
And I did predict that one year from now, which is today,
that I would still be in the same job.
I'm in the same job, completely different role.
My role has vastly, not that it was bad before,
but it's vastly improved.
Super happy with it.
And those are my predictions.
So a couple of them were softballs, sorry.
But predicting things is hard, especially about the future.
Amen.
All right.
For predictions from 2021, I don't
know if you had a chance to think of any,
or if you'd like me to start with my three
and see what you have to say after that.
What do you think?
Any ideas?
Do you want to kick it off?
Yeah, you know what?
Honestly, as you also know, that within the next hour,
I'm going on vacation.
So I did a really crappy job for the end of the episode.
These can be our predictions.
Yeah.
My predictions are your predictions.
Oh, fair enough.
May a prediction say, that's a bastardization
of about 16 different languages.
I'm sorry.
Everyone in the world.
I don't know.
In terms of predictions, I'm more leaning towards hopes.
Right now, I absolutely hope that whatever
happens in terms of the leadership of the United States
happens seamlessly without drama in January.
I absolutely hope that the world gets
tired of this whole new normal conversation.
I want us to go back to normal soon.
I have a lot of hopes around.
I don't know if you're aware.
Did you know that there are now three separate vaccines that
have shown to have 90% plus efficacy?
Very much paying attention to that.
And yeah.
Yeah, in terms of the world, it would be, it'd just be,
we need to get back.
Yeah.
By the way, I just looked up while you were talking.
You were right.
I was wrong.
Not all states have certified their elections yet.
For some reason, I thought they certified by the end
of November.
But California is the last state to certify the election,
which makes sense.
It takes a lot longer to count there.
They will certify on December 11, so next Friday.
Washington, West Virginia, Texas, Oregon, and Connecticut
certified yesterday.
Illinois will certify today.
Only thing remaining is on Monday, New York, Tuesday,
Maryland, New Jersey, and Missouri.
And on December 11, California will certify.
And then that part hopefully will be done.
And hopefully it will be.
Hopefully it'll stick.
Yeah.
All right.
Going into your hope around, I mean, it's not your hope.
It's just there is hope that it looks like the light
at the end of the tunnel.
We can, the articles I've read, see not a complete return
to normalcy, but a beginning of return to normalcy
as early as this summer, which seems like a long time.
But it's achievable.
But that goes into my first prediction.
I don't think I'm going to travel anywhere,
on an airplane at least, in 2021.
I still don't think between me just being paranoid and things
moving along, and how well it's worked me working from home,
I don't see any reason to travel for work in 2021.
Now for sure, for sure, there's going to be a lot of that too,
right?
Because there was a study I think I talked about a while ago
around internal to Microsoft.
What they're finding is that a lot of ICs are going,
dude, I have never been more productive.
ICs are individual contributors.
Whereas managers are like, oh my god, I am pulling my hair out.
We're dying in death by Zoom.
Yeah.
It's a slow, painful death.
It is.
So you mentioned a magic word there,
which gave me a pause to go on a brief segue.
I was going to say, if you don't mind, but I'm going to.
So speaking of IC productivity, are you
able to offer a comment on your employer's new productivity
score that's available for their productivity and office
applications?
What?
I don't even know what the hell you're talking about.
So maybe a week ago at Ignite, actually, in October,
Microsoft previewed a slick new tool called Productivity Score.
During the virtual presentation, a senior product manager
said the feature provides insights
that perform how work gets done by showing employers
how workers use Microsoft 365 services like Outlook Teams,
SharePoint, and OneDrive.
So they're going to analyze how much email you're sending
and how much time you're in meetings
and with who to give you a productivity score.
What do you all think about that?
Have you not seen this?
I posted it in general.
I haven't been on the Slack group in a while,
but go in general and scroll up a couple pages.
There's a little bit of a discussion on it.
Yeah, I'm reading an article on Geek Choir.
I'll just say, uh.
Yeah.
This can only end badly.
There's no good reason.
Yeah, to me, it feels like even if this thing was doing
something beneficial, to me, it feels like it's early
to release this on human society.
One of the things that I'm seeing right now, for example,
is a leaderboard with people's names.
And as we know, Hawthorne's effect is very real.
Oh, and I could game all this crap.
So I could ask you, I know the answer,
but would you feel that a productivity metric based
on how and how much your employers are using Office
apps would be a fair representation
of their productivity?
No, of course not.
Would it be even close?
And here's a quote from someone within Microsoft, I think.
I'm not going to mention the person's name,
but the quote is, productivity score
produces a score for the organization
and was never designed to score individual users.
Sure.
Right, and that's a really.
I'm sure it'll be used that way.
Well, right, if you show individual users,
but to me, I'm fairly certain that if I were to,
if I would dive in this further and understand one or two more
facts on this, that I would conclude
this might have been an unethical release.
It does smell funny.
It does.
It's gotten a lot of, I would encourage
you to continue to form your opinion on this
and let us know how it goes.
It just seems like, what?
Yeah, it seems like an onion article, but it's not.
Because I have two positive predictions,
but I have one negative one first that,
and I'm afraid it's true as much as I don't want it to be.
I think there's a lot of people that
are hoping with the transition to a president who
doesn't want to be in the news every day
that things will get back to normal in the US.
But I believe the political climate in the US
is only going to get worse no matter what.
Yeah.
Given what's happened over the last four weeks,
there's no graceful way to rise out of this.
It's going to get worse, much, much worse
before it gets better.
Yeah, sadly, I think that's true.
We'll see what happens.
I can be proven wrong, but that's my hunch.
Two other predictions.
One is going to, they're both going
to require some discussion.
But one is 2021 will be the year
that I get Nicole Forsgren to join us
for an episode of A-B testing.
Oh, OK.
That'd be a fantastic win.
I'm going to work on pulling that off.
The other one is, and it's funny,
because I wrote this before I either I forgot or I
wasn't taking in mind your comment about the rise of AI
ops.
But as I actually, I don't know if I mentioned this.
I keep, I lose track.
We don't talk for it very often.
One of the things that's on my plate,
you like how I almost gave away the prediction
that I thought I'd give some context to it?
One of the things on my plate, without going
into any details at all on our financials,
is because I manage DevOps teams,
I am managing all of our infrastructure
across the company.
One of the things on my plate is
to do whatever I can to reduce our service cost,
our hosting cost, any cost, all of our spend
we use to make money.
What I'm finding as I dig deeper into this
is there's actually a book on this which
puts it ahead of AI ops.
But I find not a lot of people have heard of,
and maybe you have in your part of the world,
but 2021 will be the rise of FinOps.
Have you heard of FinOps before?
No.
FinancialOps.
It's people who specialize in analyzing
cloud spend, technology spend, and find optimization.
We're at a stage now in our, I can say this much,
we don't have any huge low hanging fruit.
It doesn't save a lot of money.
We're going to have to find hundreds of ways
to save a little bit of money here and there.
So I'm actually going to hire, I'm
going to attempt to hire a FinOps engineer in 2021.
Because this role exists.
There are job openings for other companies.
There are FinOps.org I found.
It's all about this.
There's a book about maybe two or three books on FinOps.
There's one most of them are dedicated to FinOps in AWS,
which is interesting, but not as relevant to me as GCP.
But anyway, I'm going to attempt to hire a FinOps
engineer.
And that's not what's going to cause the overall industry
rise of this.
I think it's just I'm riding the wave,
I think, of something that is going
to become much more huge in 2021.
FinOps.
Brett's still going, what is this word you told me?
What are you talking about?
FinOps.
I'm just like, where does that even come from?
It's a DevOps engineer who focuses on financials.
Hey, podcast listeners, my dog says hello.
Did you say Fin or Fin?
F-I-N-O-P-S.
There is a thing called FinOps.
It's a company, apparently.
So what, F-I-M?
It's a not fat skinny.
Oh, FinOps.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, Fin, like financial operations.
It's a dumb name, but it makes sense given.
All right.
Sure.
Why not?
Let's ops everything.
Ops is the new .NET.
It really is.
And if you look at, because I pay attention to the DevOps
space, and actually one of the discussions we have on my org
is we have a DevOps team, and I have other teams that do things.
And they're really DevOps.
Really, none of them are DevOps, because DevOps is a culture.
They're really just platforms, and infrastructure, and tools,
and I just give up on figuring out what to call them.
But then I see a note from marketing.
They're hiring someone for DevOps.
And I'm like, what?
And it's like marketing for, I can't go into the details,
but all I'll say is anything that has anything to do
with developer workflow is now known as DevOps.
And I find it appalling and disgusting, and I hate it.
It just drives me frickin' batty.
And the battle is long gone.
I can't find it anymore.
Oh, if I was good with editing, I'd go add this back
to the beginning, but I've been reading this book
called Seeking SRE.
Great stories, great stories.
I'm gonna, I don't have it here.
I'm gonna read you something.
Because I've been looking at, because I have SRE,
I have DevOps, I have internal platforms,
all the tools and systems we use
to build and deploy software.
And I'm trying to slightly have an SRE team
who are doing a little bit too much incident management
and not enough SRE for me.
And so I was trying to think what that,
and they're getting it now.
We're well on our way to functioning,
like I think we should.
But in reading this book, I found this quote
in this book, which is actually,
I believe from the DevOps handbook,
but I wanted to read it to you, so get your thoughts.
One could view DevOps as a generalization
of several core SRE principles
to a wider range of organizations,
management structures and personnel.
One could equivalently view SRE
as a specific implementation of DevOps
with some idiosyncratic extensions.
Or some specialties.
Some specialization.
I love that quote.
Because it helped, for me in my org,
it helps explain, I try and explain to them
that really you're all doing things
that could be called DevOps.
And they don't, they kind of get it,
but not everybody quite gets it,
but it's all, everybody's working on helping
internal teams build, deliver, deploy,
and maintain a high quality code.
Yeah, I've always viewed DevOps
as sort of the umbrella term.
Yeah, yeah, in fact, there is a rumor,
at least I don't see us corroborated anywhere
on the internet, but there's a rumor
that the reason Google named SRE
and camped with a team called SRE
is they didn't want to call the team DevOps.
So they made up a new name.
Okay, I wonder why.
I mean, that's...
Because remember, DevOps is a culture,
not the name of an org.
We lost that battle.
It's all right.
I say DevOps is a culture.
We have a team called that
to help facilitate that culture in the organization.
And my team very much lives that principle,
but keep in mind that I would say at this stage,
the majority of teams called DevOps in the world
actually think they do the DevOps,
they're really operations orgs,
which is the antithesis of having DevOps.
But how do we get there?
Okay, so those are all the predictions
I could think of for 2021, not going anywhere.
Nicole's coming on the show.
Nicole, if you're listening, you're welcome anytime.
Just anytime.
Anytime.
Because we wanna talk all about your book
and I should pay attention to see what else
she has been up to.
I did wish her a happy birthday yesterday
because she and I have the same birthday.
Us and Ozzy Osbourne, those are the...
She and Ozzy Osbourne are the two people I know
with the same birthday as mine.
Now you know, today I learned.
Well, that's great.
The last time we did the prediction,
like we didn't even, COVID wasn't even a hint.
No, but it was a hint soon after.
We began hearing about COVID, as you recall,
in late 2019.
It was just after our recording.
And man, it came on fast and it's not going away.
Yeah, the...
I don't know.
It definitely feels like...
I wonder, I wonder if the test...
I don't know.
I wonder if anyone's done a study.
Has the test industry...
How has the test industry been impacted by COVID?
If at all.
I don't think it's changed at all.
You don't?
You don't think...
Like hiring has changed.
So one of the things that I'm very aware of is, right?
There's a lot of financial issues,
a lot of mom and pop companies going under, right?
COVID has basically, in some degree,
and I'm not commenting on whether or not I agree with it,
but in some degree, that shifted the pain, right?
There's far more, right?
The mental illness issues are on the rise.
People having...
That has nothing to do with testing though.
No, I know.
That has to do with COVID in general.
And while I fully acknowledge that mental health issues
have definitely risen due to everything to do with COVID,
we have seen some wins though.
So I'll tie this back into predictions.
But one thing, there's a company that I work with.
They make a test automation tool,
and they just got rid of their permanent office.
They're a permanent remote work company now, and forever.
Interesting.
Which saves them a lot of money.
I think it's probably happened a lot.
I think what we'll see as we get into summer next year
is we're gonna begin to see...
Some companies have already said
people can work from home forever.
Some companies have already made some decisions
about how offices will be different
when people start going back to work every day.
We're going to see an onslaught
of companies doing different things too,
that both give people options to work from home
more often or permanently,
and then take advantage of that
by downsizing their corporate office space.
There's a huge shift that we'll begin to see happen
as maybe some of that office space turns into housing,
easing some of the housing burden
in places like the Bay Area.
We're going to see actual...
Actual is a bad adjective there.
We're going to see continuous stipends
for people who work from home.
We're going to see more and more remote work
from locations that aren't in the same city as the office.
We're going to see just a lot more ongoing remote work
from people who actually enjoy it.
Yeah, and there's gonna be additional complexities.
For example, I just recently hired an employee
who will start in January.
He's currently in the Bay Area.
And so the time zone is the same,
but he has to relocate in order to work from home.
Right?
And the primary reason is because if he works from home
and being located in California,
he takes a end percent pay cut
because California has state income tax.
Right, because you have to pay tax
in the place where you're doing your primary work.
And there's something else that that has to...
In this new world,
I'm surprised it hasn't happened earlier in COVID.
Like when we have employees moving to new states,
we have to make sure there's to work.
We have to make sure we have a tax entity there
in order for them to work there.
Right. Paperwork.
We have, I know people who would like to go work
from home and home is another country.
They cannot under a company policy under US tax law
because you have to have a taxable entity
for that company in that country.
Right, and then...
So I think we'll begin to see some workarounds
for things like that for states and for the world.
I'm not sure what they look like.
We'll begin to see some efforts
to make that a little bit more,
not easy to do long-term,
but able to do on short-term basis
for things like visiting family,
for things like not being able to move right now.
Well, so like one thing that I was thinking of,
one of my coworkers last Friday
moved his whole family down to Florida
and they've rented a house for the next three months.
Right, and he took some time off
in order to execute that move.
So from Florida,
and he's normally based in New York City.
And he's gonna be working from home in Florida for that time.
And I'm like, that, except for the anxiety
around working through the logistics of,
okay, how do we make sure that this house is cleaned?
How do we make sure it's filled with all the stuff
that we can do?
I mean, ignoring all that, that sounds awesome.
I agree, I agree.
One thing I wanted to mention along these lines
is I'm not sure it was like for you,
you mentioned you added a team on the East Coast
during COVID, but I counted.
And now over a quarter of my org,
as of today has never seen a unity office.
Oh, interesting.
We've hired a quarter of the team has been hired
after April, from April to now.
Yeah.
I don't know how that number extrapolates
across the company, but it's very interesting.
Yeah, right now my team is at 50-50
because I hired a whole new
and then I had a couple of attrition.
So people leave left anyway.
Yeah.
So that's interesting.
And it's gonna get higher because I have a FinOps
rec about to go live just to do a program manager rec,
probably a few other hires in the beginning of the year.
So I may have, won't get the half,
but more and more of my work
will have not seen unity office.
Yeah, interesting.
Yeah, it's a new world.
One of the things that I'll end on,
obviously I think the COVID thing is too restrictive.
I think we need to absolutely get that over with and done.
But change always creates new exciting opportunities
for those who are on the lookout for them.
This is how you make your own luck.
It is, it is.
A lot of luck is paying attention
at the right place in the right time.
Yep, yep, all right.
Well, that said, Alan, I wish you and your family
a fantastic holiday season and a happy new year.
I'll see you in 2021.
The same to you in 2021 and also to all of the three people,
all three of you listening to the podcast,
thanks for listening and have a happy holiday,
happy new year.
We'll podcast to you again in 2021.
Yes.
Is that what we're going to call it now?
No, I just did that to see if I could trigger your 2021
thing, I failed.
It's 2021, when you call it 2021,
that's when I think you're weird.
Oh yeah, 2020 and one.
Oh yeah, make it even longer.
That would be great.
Okay, I'm Santa Alan.
And I am not.
All right, bye everyone.
See you next year.
Bye.